- [Instructor] One of the most common use cases
for asynchronous messaging
in a microservices-based system
is so-called EventDriven microservices.
Oftentimes, you'll hear of EventDriven microservices
being applied to a data pattern,
and we will discuss that when we talk about data
but for the purposes of this chapter,
we are talking very generic
about EventDriven microservices
and how to apply them to your use cases.
An EventDriven microservices pattern requires one
or more steps based on the invocation
from a specific event.
These can be as simple as writing a tuple to a database,
or as complex as a series of remediation processes
that are required when a specific system event occurs.
Again, the sky is the limit here
when working in these models,
but the key is one or more steps.
Those steps, however, are triggered from a single event.
We don't usually build EventDriven microservices based
on several events being fired
before kicking off the workflow.
It is usually one single event.
Now, I won't say that there aren't cases
where there are a series of events needed
but the EventDriven microservices architecture fires
from a successful check
that all the other data is in a proper state.
All of the steps are part of the same goal.
Consider a banking loan application.
In a banking system, several tasks or steps
must be completed once a loan application is submitted.
These events cascade down a path
of getting to one end goal.
The approval or disapproval
of the loan application.
We don't want to muddy the waters here
when discussing an EventDriven system
with ancillary tasks that need to happen.
Those may be required of the system
but they are not part of the event itself.
Finally, each piece has a role to play.
We talked about how they all have the end goal in mind
but each step should be distinct and required.
These isolation of steps allow the components
to do the work that they are assigned to do
and nothing more but nothing less.
The isolation and definition
of what that role is allows the developers
to build systems that function as expected
because there can be a concrete definition
of each of the steps.
The first model for EventDriven microservices
that we will talk about is the choreographed events.
Now, we're going to go into detail of this later on,
but for now, we'll just touch on it.
This often can be called a call tree.
Each step does some work
and passes a message down the change.
There is no centralized controller
of the choreographed events.
They just cascade down the pipeline.
Speaking of pipeline,
if you have ever done work in Unix or Linux,
you have seen a pseudo example of this
with the pipe syntax.
In a pipe, the output from one command
is passed to another.
This is similar to how choreographed events work.
While the full output of a step
isn't passed to the next step that often,
some trigger will be passed
with sufficient data to the next step
for it to do its work and so on down the call chain.
Orchestrated events are another option
with EventDriven microservices.
The orchestrated model is much more common
in practice than orchestrated events.
This comes from the centralization
of command and control.
More often than not, we know the steps
that are involved in a process
and as such, we have the ability
to invoke the steps as we need to,
and oftentimes pull for a result.
Because we are in an asynchronous pattern,
the pulling for results is standard,
either from the service executing the step
or maybe from a database or some other state store.
The orchestrator knows which events
are ready to fire and will handle the calling downstream
via a message system.
This model is, however, still based on isolated steps.
Those isolated steps are distinct.
Seldom, if ever, do steps need to know
about other steps in the overall orchestration.